difficulty, question, answer,
easy, What is the "right" side of a boat called?, starboard,
easy, What is the steering gear of a boat called?, rudder,
easy, What is the "left" side of a boat called?, port,
easy, What are floors on a boat called?, deck,
easy, What are sails on a sailing boat most often fastened to?, mast,
easy, What are windows on a boat called?, portholes,
easy, What is the front of a boat called?, bow,
easy, What is the back of a boat called?, stern,
easy, What is the most common measurement of a boats speed... equivalent to around one nautical mile per hour?, knot,
easy, What is commonly known as the backbone of a ship?, keel,
easy, (Credit: Paulsquiz.com) In which European city might you travel in a gondola?, Venice,
easy, What famous ship was sunk after striking an iceburg in April 1912?, Titanic,
easy, (Credit: Funtrivia.com) Launched in 1798... what ship was nicknamed "Old Ironsides"?, USS Constitution,
easy, What type of ship was the USS Maine?, battleship,
easy, (Credit: Funtrivia.com) Queen Anne's Revenge was the ship captured and used by which pirate?, Blackbeard,
easy, What ship in recent times is known for getting wedged in the Suez Canal?, Ever Given,
easy, What kind of beacon was used to alert ships of a nearby coastline?, lighthouse,
easy, Which ship is regarded as the first to land in America in 1620?, Mayflower,
easy, The term "knot" comes from the 17'th century when a boat's speed was literally measured by throwing a rope tied with equally-spaced knots into the ocean and counting how many knots had passed in a certain amount of time. True or false?, true,
easy, What ocean liner remains open as a museum in California?, The Queen Mary,
easy, What does RMS stand for in "RMS Titanic"?, Royal Mail Ship,
medium, What is the lever used to steer small boats?, tiller,
medium, During WWI... ships were painted in _________ paint. Not to blend into the environment... but rather to disorientate an enemy vessel and make aiming torpedos and other weapons more difficult., dazzle,
medium, What type of ship was the KMS Bismarck?, battleship,
medium, What is the room that contains the steering wheel of a ship?, wheelhouse,
medium, What is the name of a device used to measure wind speed?, anemometer,
medium, Which group of people used a cargo ship called the Knarr?, vikings,
medium, What is a line used to hoist sails?, halyard,
medium, What is the cable used to hold up a mast?, shroud,
medium, (Credit: Sportsfoundation.org) What is the name of the sail on the front of a sailboat?, headsail,
medium, What is the horizontal pole used to attach the bottom of a sail?, boom,
medium, What is a type of boat with two hulls?, catamaran,
medium, What is a term for a sailing ship with two square-rigged masts?, Brig,
medium, In 1916... White Star Line's Britannic hit a German mine near the Greek island of Kea. What were the four letters preceding the ship's name?, HMHS,
medium, What famous ship was sunk by a German torpedo in May 1915?, Lusitania,
medium, What class of ships did the White Star Line's Titanic... Britannic... and Olympic belong to?, Olympic,
medium, The SS _______ was the first steamship to cross the Atlantic Ocean., Savannah,
medium, What is the part of the ship that references the distance between the waterline and the keel of a ship?, draft,
medium, Before cars... trains... and planes... goods and people had to be transported long distances by boat. This is why most major non-coastal settlements of the time were built along what body of water?, river,
medium, What famous ship has... as of March 2025... been sent to Destin in Florida to become the world's largest artificial reef?, SS United States,
medium, Who captained the Costa Concordia at the time of its sinking in 2004?, Francesco Schettino,
hard, The Canadian Navy names their ships with HMCS at the beginning. What does this stand for?, His Majesty's Canadian Ship,
hard, What company owned the RMS Lusitania?, Cunard Line,
hard, HMS at the beginning of a ship's name is in reference to a prominent female royal figure. What are the three words that make up HMS?, Her Majesty's Ship,
hard, (Credit: Watercoolertrivia.com) The 1975 sinking of what freighter in Lake Superior inspired a #2 single by Canadian singer-songwriter Gordon Lightfoot the following year?, Edmund Fitzgerald,
hard, The ______ approach is a technique used to avoid being pushed by the wind while mooring a sailboat., windward,
hard, What paint formula was specially designed to protect the underside of a ship's hull from the harsh sea elements such as erosion and barnacles?, anti-fouling,
hard, Bananas are considered bad luck when carried on a boat... true or false?, true,
hard, What is the term for the violent force created in differences in water pressure on either side of a thin underwater opening?, delta p,
hard, What German U-boat was sunk by the HMT Olympic in 1918?, SM U-103,
